General idea: first show full e2e demo, then give details on parts of the e2e pipeline.

1: e2e demo of UC0:
We have an input DAG describing the workflow, as well as a hardware description of the system and an input graph.
We push it through the graph-optimizer pipeline, most of which is hidden, and the output shows 3 things:
1) a prediction of the e2e execution time of the workflow. This can be as simple as a single number for predicted runtime and predicted energy. Maybe some cool graphic.
2) automatically generated "optimal" code for the given hardware. This code will be compiled and run to show correct output.
3) validation by running the generated code and comparing it against the predicted execution time. 

2: how does graph optimizer find the optimal code?:
show two methods for performance prediction: analytical modeling, and sampling based approach.
explain: analytical models give fastest prediction, but are difficult to make accurate for highly data dependent workloads.
         thus, a second approach, based on graph sampling, gives more accurate predictions for a higher compute cost -> reference paper.
show plots for sampling based approach for all the BGO implementations of UC0.

3: code generation (optional, maybe this is not necessary?):
give more details on code generation: show how all BGOs have implementations with a config, 
how we can annotate the DAG to define which inputs are used from other BGOs,
and how the template is used to generate the code for the workflow.

bars['Worst Case'] = (766295655774.0001+5488231320.0+23261594378.0+133.0479245111368, 21883671678+169938142+659359558+4.656677357889788e-06)


Hi everyone, my name is Duncan, and I will be presenting the demonstration of the graph-optimizer tool.
This demonstration will consist of three parts. First, an end-to-end demonstration of the tool, showing how it can be used in practice.
Then, we go a bit deeper into the inner workings of the tool, and how the prediction is done.
And finally, we show how graph-optimizer can be used to automatically generate optimal CPU and GPU code.

For the end-to-end pipeline, graph-optimizer takes three inputs. The workflow, as specified by the user,
the hardware on which the workflow will be run, and the properties of the graph to which the workflow will be applied.
We then take these inputs and apply our prediction models to predict runtime, energy, and generate optimal code.

We will use the following workflow throughout this demonstration, where the arrows indicate dependencies.
So we start with PageRank, after which the BFS and find_max BGOs can run, and the outputs of BFS and
find_max will be used to find the shortest path from the source of the graph to the node with the highest PageRank.


So this is how it can be used in practice. We have the graph_optimizer_end-to-end function, which takes the workflow, 
hardware, and graph properties as input. We also see two other optional arguments: target specifies for what you want to optimize,
since Graph-Optimizer can optimize for both Runtime and Energy. And correction is a finetuning parameter, which depends on the input graph.
We will explain later why this is necessary and how it is used.
As you can see, graph-optimizer is busy predicting the runtime for all implementations for the BGOs from the workflow, both CPU and GPU.
This will take a few minutes, so I will speed it up a bit

So after about 2 minutes, the predictions are in, and the optimal implementation for each BGO has been selected.
We can now use this output to automatically generate an end-to-end implementation of this workflow in C++.
Since I run this on a single machine with only one CPU and one GPU, BFS and find_max cannot be executed in parallel,
so an execution plan is made where all BGOs are executed sequentially.
We can compile... and run the code.

And as you can see, the workflow took ... seconds, and ... MJ of energy.
Let's see how this compares to our prediction.
So we see two plots, one for runtime, one for energy, which show two bars. On the left hand side we see our prediction,
and on the right hand side the measured runtime and energy. For the runtime we have an error of about ...percent, and for
energy an error of about ... percent.

So how much time and energy did we save by using Graph Optimizer? Well, we can use the same techniques to select the 
worst performing implementation for each BGO to show this. This will take a while, so I will make a cut here.

We see here that in the worst case, the runtime and energy can be almost two orders of magnitude higher than the optimal case.
And this is very dependant on the specific graph at hand. For some graph structures, these might actually be the best case.


The inputs for graph optimizer are mostly automatically obtained, except the specification of the workflow, which the user can define in JSON format
as follows. Each BGO has a unique ID, and the dependency arrows can be specified in lists for each BGO.
The hardware information of the CPU and GPU is automatically extracted from the machine, and microbenchmarks are also automatically executed.
These microbenchmarks are used to calibrate the analytical performance models which we will see in a second.
Finally, the relevant graph properties are automatically extracted from the graph.

To select the optimal implementation for each BGO, we use two different performance modeling techniques. First is analytical models.
The benefit of these is that prediction is instant, and they can be very portable across different hardware setups.
However, they are also notoriously hard to achieve high accuracy with, especially for graph processing, and even more so for the GPU.
This makes them infeasable for a lot of the BGO implementation we have.
In this plot we see the predicted execution time using these analytical models for some of the BGO implementations. Each BGO has CPU and GPU implementations,
but we only have analytical models for some of the CPU implementations

Thus, we designed a new method, which was published in GraphSys 2025, which uses a small sample of the graph to execute the BGO implementation in a
fraction of the time, but we can then use this "millibenchmark", as we call it, to give a much more accurate prediction of the execution time and energy consumption.
But, to get the most accurate results, there has to be a human in the loop to finetune the model for the specific type of graph for each usecase.
Which is what the correction parameter was for. This only has to be done once for each usecase.
We use these to compliment the analytical models, and we see here the predicted execution time, or energy consumption [click button] for all implementations.
From these, for each BGO, we take the implementation with the lowest runtime or energy consumption.

Next up the automatic code generation. For this, the workflow has to be annotated with the data flow between BGOs, as demonstrated in this diagram.
If graph optimizer is used within the Graph Massivizer ecosystem, this can be automatically done, but if used as a standalone tool, the user has to specify
these dataflows as follows: for each BGO, there is a list containing mappings between the output parameter of one BGO and the input parameters of the other.

Then, when running the end to end prediction, graph optimizer will annotate the optimal implementations in this workflow, along with the predicted execution timea
and energy consumption, which are the implementations that are used for code generation. So we see here all the bgo parameters, and here their function calls
with correct mapping between input and output parameters.

Finally, with a small conversion, this output can directly be used as input for the graph greenifier tool, which uses the runtime and energy predictions
in the OpenDC simulations, which you will see in a later demonstration.